---
layout: subpage
short_title: Caribbean Digital Virtual Artist’s Residency
title: "The Caribbean Digital Virtual Artist’s Residency 2025"
permalink: /tcdr/cfp2025/
lang: en
---

<section class="pd-tb-90">
  <div class="container col-md-8">
    <div class="row">
      <h2
        style="width: 100%"
        class="text-center"
        id="2025 Call for Applications"
      >
        <strong>2025 Call for Applications</strong>
      </h2>

      <p>
        The Caribbean Digital Virtual Artist’s Residency program supports
        Caribbean artists working in digital media. The residency is offered in
        conjunction with the annual
        <a href="https://thecaribbeandigital.org/residency/" target="_blank"
          >Caribbean Digital (TCD) conference</a
        >, an international event hosted annually at locations in the United
        States and the Caribbean since 2014, and in partnership with Alice Yard,
        a contemporary art collective based at Granderson Lab in Belmont, Port
        of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago. The Mellon Foundation sponsors this
        program.
      </p>

      <h3 id="Key Facts">Key Facts</h3>
      <ul>
        <li>
          Deadline for applications: April 1, 2025, at 11:59 pm (Eastern
          Standard Time)
        </li>
        <li>Announcements: May 31, 2025</li>
        <li>Residency period: June 15 to Dec 15, 2025</li>
      </ul>

      <h3 id="Background">About the Virtual Residency</h3>
      <p>
        Beginning in 2022 and for a period of four years, TCD and Alice Yard are
        partnering to create an annual virtual residency program for artists of
        the Caribbean and its diasporas who work in digital media.
        <strong
          >The residency aims to facilitate the development of new artworks in
          digital media that investigate ideas and practices in Caribbean
          Digital Humanities and engage with scholars in the TCD network and
          community</strong
        >.
      </p>

      <p>
        The successful artist will be announced by the end of May 2025, and the
        residency will run from June 15 to December 15. The recipient will
        present the work during the residency at The Caribbean Digital’s annual
        conference in December 2025.
      </p>

      <p>The 2025 TCD artist residency consists of the following:</p>

      <ul>
        <li>
          a cash stipend of US$5,000 to support six months of part-time research
          and creative work, to begin in June 2025;
        </li>
        <li>
          curatorial mentorship by artist and Alice Yard co-director Christopher
          Cozier;
        </li>
        <li>two virtual studio visits by professional curators or critics;</li>
        <li>
          the commissioning and online publication of a critical text by a
          professional art writer to document the artist’s work and process;
        </li>
        <li>
          arranged travel and accommodation to present the resulting work at
          <a href="https://thecaribbeandigital.org/residency/" target="_blank"
            >Caribbean Digital (TCD) annual conference</a
          >
          in December 2025;
        </li>
        <li>
          an installation allowance to cover the cost of the artist's
          presentation at TCD.
        </li>
      </ul>

      <p>
        During the virtual residency, the artist will remain based at their
        usual location, interacting with the administrators, mentor, and TCD
        community members via traditional online media and tools, with the
        understanding that the artist will maintain regular contact through
        scheduled meetings and check-ins.
      </p>

      <h3>Eligibility and application guidelines</h3>
      <p>
        <strong
          >The Caribbean Digital Virtual Artist’s Residency seeks to support the
          development of “born-digital” creative work primarily based on digital
          media and tools rather than analog work digitized for presentation or
          storage</strong
        >. Artists may work in any digital media, including but not limited to
        images, sound, and text. Also integral to the residency is the artist’s
        engagement with Caribbean Digital Humanities, a multidisciplinary field
        of study that brings digital technologies into the research, analysis,
        visualization, and application of the traditional humanities. During the
        residency, the artist is expected to engage in dialogue with Caribbean
        Digital Humanities scholars to enrich their creative and research
        practices.
      </p>
      <p>
        Looking for inspiration? Check out the work of our previous
        artists-in-residence, Marinna Shareef, Ruben Cabenda, and Zoe Osborne.
      </p>
      <p>
        The Caribbean Digital Virtual Artist’s Residency is open to
        <strong
          >artists from the Caribbean and its diasporas, with a preference for
          applicants living and working in the Caribbean region</strong
        >. Applicants must be over the age of 18 on April 1, 2025.
      </p>

      <p>
        To apply,<a
          href="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1E2e05_2wzjYptszrPclHkoVBrJxDdrsQ9PTDMrGN3GY/preview"
          target="_blank"
        >
          complete the online form</a
        >
        and upload an application package (PDF) containing the following:
      </p>

      <ol>
        <li>
          a description of the work the artist proposes to develop during the
          residency. This may be a new project or an extension of existing work
          in progress (max. 400 words);
        </li>
        <li>
          a short statement explaining how the artist’s proposed work would
          benefit from dialogue and engagement with TCD’s Digital Humanities
          network (max. 200 words);
        </li>
        <li>
          a short description of the digital tools — whether software or
          hardware — and methods the artist expects to use in the development of
          their work (max. 200 words);
        </li>
        <li>
          a CV, including a short biographical statement; a list of exhibitions,
          publications, or other forms of presentation of recent work; and the
          artist’s website and relevant public social media accounts, if
          applicable (max. two pages);
        </li>
        <li>
          a portfolio presenting a sample of the artist’s recent work: not to
          exceed 10 sample pieces with descriptive captions (embedded still
          images, links to short videos or sound work, etc).
        </li>
      </ol>

      <p>
        <i
          >NB: the artist’s application package
          <strong>must be saved as a PDF</strong>, and the five elements listed
          above must be in a <strong>single file</strong>. Please do not attach
          multiple files or use other file formats.</i
        >
      </p>

      <p>
        <strong
          >The application deadline is April 1, 2025, at 11:59 pm (EST). Late
          applications will not be considered.</strong
        >
      </p>
      <p>
        A jury comprised of the Alice Yard collective and TCD members will
        assess applications. The artist will retain the ownership and copyright
        of their work, but they must grant TCD non-exclusive rights to present
        and archive the work on their website and in other media.
      </p>
      <p>
        For any queries about eligibility requirements or the application
        process, please contact the residency administrators at
        <a href="mailto:thecaribbeandigital@gmail.com"
          >thecaribbeandigital[at]gmail.com.</a
        >
      </p>
      <div class="portfolio-details-block">
      <div class="project-demo-btn">
        <a class="btn project-btn" href="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1E2e05_2wzjYptszrPclHkoVBrJxDdrsQ9PTDMrGN3GY/preview"
          >Apply for 2025</a
        >
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>

  </div>
</section>
