---
layout: page
title: CFP 2022
long_title: Call for Proposals 2022
permalink: micro-grants/cfp2022/
lang: en
---


<section class="about-us-content pd-tb-90">
  <div class="container">
    <div class="row">




<h2 id="deadline-september-15-2022">Deadline: <strong>September 15,
2022</strong> </h2>
<p>The Caribbean Digital Scholarship Collective (CDSC) is pleased to
launch its annual micro-grant program to support innovative digital
scholarship work in the Caribbean. The CDSC micro-grant program will
serve as a model to the community at large of what is possible, and can
nudge the field of theory and practice as a whole in directions that are
not only innovative for Caribbean Digital Scholarship but for Digital
Scholarship in general.</p>
<h3 id="about-the-grant">About the Grant</h3>
<p>The CDSC will support a minimum of five projects in 2023, offering
financial resources in the form of grants ranging from $1,000 to
$25,000, depending on need. <em>We hope to be able to help more people
with what they need. We can certainly do so if we have many applications
asking for less than the maximum.</em></p>
<p>We welcome applications from original projects at any stage, from
inception to currently in development. Each grantee may be assigned a
mentor from the CDSC or a remunerated Caribbeanist mentor. Remunerated
mentors will receive $1000.</p>
<h3>Preparing a Proposal</h3><br>
<p>Applicants should <a
href="https://forms.gle/J4tY2YMvAjqJkQMw9"><u>submit</u></a> a single
document (Word or PDF) with the following:</p>
<ol type="1">
<li><blockquote>
<p>A title.</p>
</blockquote></li>
<li><blockquote>
<p>A 250-words summary.</p>
</blockquote></li>
<li><blockquote>
<p>A 1000-1200 word narrative that includes:</p>
</blockquote>
<ol type="a">
<li><blockquote>
<p>Project description</p>
</blockquote></li>
<li><blockquote>
<p>Intellectual contributions of the project to Caribbean Digital
Scholarship:</p>
</blockquote>
<ol type="i">
<li><blockquote>
<p>The project's relationship to existing literature/projects; and/or
early conversations in the literature about the project (where
appropriate).</p>
</blockquote></li>
<li><blockquote>
<p>The project's engagement with digital methods and tools to advance
research, teaching, and learning, and/or public engagement</p>
</blockquote></li>
</ol></li>
<li><blockquote>
<p>The current stage of the project's development, technologies, and
early sign of process-derived knowledge</p>
</blockquote></li>
<li><blockquote>
<p>A plan of execution, including deliverables, expected outcomes,
potential partners, and data management</p>
</blockquote></li>
<li><blockquote>
<p>A brief explanation of how the project addresses equity and inclusion
(when appropriate), thoughtful design, and long-term preservation.</p>
</blockquote></li>
</ol></li>
<li><blockquote>
<p>A Proposed budget.</p>
</blockquote></li>
<li><blockquote>
<p>1-page resume(s) of principal investigator(s).</p>
</blockquote></li>
</ol>
<p>Our team will be happy to answer questions about your proposal before
submission. If you need to hire an outside vendor to provide technology
for your project, we highly encourage you to contact them to prepare a
data management, scope, and budget plan. We have partnered with <a
href="https://www.performantsoftware.com/"><u>Performant
Software</u></a> for a discount for some types of projects, and they
will be more than happy to help you draft the relevant parts of the
proposal. Please get in touch with us if you think this will be the case
for you.</p>
<p><strong>The deadline for submissions is September 15, 2022. The
committee will not review applications submitted after the
deadline.</strong></p>
<p><a href="https://forms.gle/J4tY2YMvAjqJkQMw9"><u>Click to submit your
CDSC Micro-grant application</u></a></p>
<h3 id="eligibility">Eligibility</h3>
<ul>
<li><blockquote>
<p>Individuals and groups from educational, research, and community
organizations working in Caribbean Studies and based anywhere in the
world.</p>
</blockquote></li>
<li><blockquote>
<p>Independent scholars anywhere in the world working in Caribbean
Studies.</p>
</blockquote></li>
<li><blockquote>
<p>Caribbean-based scholars who are working on any area related to
Digital Scholarship.</p>
</blockquote></li>
</ul>
<p>The CDSC will prioritize individuals, groups and/or work representing
the Caribbean regions and its global diasporas.</p>
<h3 id="evaluation-and-selection">Evaluation and Selection</h3>
<p>The CDSC will host an informational webinar to answer applicants'
questions about the requirements and expectations of the grant on August
2, 2022, at 1 pm EST. <a
href="https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJUtdeCuqD8oGNdHckMOip-U2pjaEkziw0on"><u>Register
for the informational webinar</u></a></p>
<p>An editorial board of four members will review the applications and
select the awardees. The board will be formed by the CDSC micro-grant
program coordinator, the CDSC Grant Associate Director, a CDSC rotating
member, and a rotating external jury member.</p>
<p>The board will read through proposals in one round of selection using
criteria designed for <a
href="https://archipelagosjournal.org/reviewers.html"><em><u>archipelagos
journal</u></em></a>, notably, the overall scholarly contribution,
equity and inclusion (when appropriate), thoughtful design, and
preservation strategy. The CDSC will also assist when needed in the
preparation of the proposal.</p>
<p>The CDSC committee will select the grantees in Fall 2022 and disburse
the micro-grants by Winter 2023.</p>
<h3 id="grantees-expectations">Grantees Expectations </h3>
<p>The length of the proposed project and deliverables should range
between January and December 2023. The CDSC expects grantees to present
their projects at the <a href="http://caribbeandigitalnyc.net/"><u>2023
TCD conference</u></a>. Grantees should be amenable to having their
projects featured on the CDSC website, social media, and other
communications; acknowledge the CDSC's support in their public-facing
materials; and participate in public events about the micro-grant
program.</p>
<p>At the end of the funding period, the CDSC will earmark one
micro-grantee in each award round as a flagship project. These flagship
projects will serve as models to the community at large, and they can
nudge the field of theory and practice in creative directions for
Caribbean Digital Scholarship in particular and Digital Scholarship in
general. <a href="https://sameboats.org/"><u>In The Same Boats</u></a>,
a set of interactive mapping visualizations that trace the movements of
significant cultural actors from the Caribbean and broader Americas,
Africa, and Europe within the 20th century Afro-Atlantic world, is an
example of these possible flagship projects.</p>
<h3 id="fine-print">Fine Print</h3>
<p>Grant awards are subject to federal, state, and local tax
regulations. Each grantee is responsible for reporting taxable stipend
payments and remitting any tax due with their personal or institutional
income tax return. For specific questions about your tax
responsibilities, please contact the Internal Revenue Service, an
accountant, or an income tax service.</p>
<h3 id="stay-up-to-date">Stay up to date</h3>
<p><a
href="https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJUtdeCuqD8oGNdHckMOip-U2pjaEkziw0on"><u>Register
for the informational webinar</u></a> on August 2, 2022, at 1 pm EST.
Sign up for our newsletter to receive notifications about the
Micro-grants Call for Proposals and news from the CDSC.</p>
<h3 id="additional-resources">Additional Resources </h3>
<p><a href="https://archipelagosjournal.org/index.html"><u>Archipelagos
Journal</u></a></p>
<p><a href="https://www.dloc.com/"><u>Digital Library of the
Caribbean</u></a></p>
<p><a href="https://caribbeandigitalnyc.net/caridischo/"><u>Directory of
Caribbean Digital Scholarship</u></a></p>

</div></div></section>