---
layout: program
title: "Microgrants"
long_title: "Migrogrants for Caribbean Digital Scholarship"
thumbnail: "/assets/images/Portfolio/1.jpg"
permalink: micro-grants/
lang: en
---

<div class="portfolio-details">
    <p>Computational research and public humanities projects are the core exercises of digital scholarship. The production of digital scholarship projects in the Caribbean region and/or by Caribbean Studies scholars suffers from five common obstacles: lack of funds, lack of training, lack of guidance, lack of teams, and lack of time. The institutes and the academic programs will help address these gaps. In order to foster the work beyond the training or “incubator” stages, though, we propose disbursing micro-grants for smaller Caribbean DH project support as a second stage of development, beyond early prototyping. This micro-grant program will serve as a smaller, condensed version of traditional start-up and implementation grants. 
</p>
    <p>The selection of projects to be financed beyond the programs of study will be carried out by an editorial board composed of three members: the micro-grant program coordinator, Alex Gil, a rotating member of the CDSC, and a rotating external jury member. We will remunerate the annual invited external member to ensure quorum. We will deploy a CFP campaign in North America and the Caribbean. The board will read through proposals in two rounds of selection using criteria designed for <a href="https://archipelagosjournal.org/reviewers.html" target="_blank">archipelagos journal</a>, notably, the overall scholarly contribution, equity and inclusion (when appropriate), thoughtful design, and preservation strategy. We will also provide assistance when needed in the preparation of the proposal. We will offer three rounds of microgrants for the duration of the grant, from 2023 to 2025. Each year we will support 4-5 projects, offering both financial resources (grants of up to $20,000) and mentorship, with mentors chosen from the Collective or remunerated fellow Caribbeanist scholars. Mentors will meet with grantees a minimum of three consultations, one each at the beginning, middle, and end of the process, and will make themselves available on a project channel for queries and consultations as needed. Mentors will help grantees determine how best to use their resources, scope properly, answer technological questions when possible or point towards an answer, and make recommendations for project management. </p>
    <p>Micro-granting can build momentum in the production of innovative and much-needed work. In order to set the stage, in each award round one micro-grant will be earmarked for flagship projects produced by the grant team. These flagship projects will serve as models to the community at large and can nudge the field of theory and practice in innovative directions for Caribbean Digital Scholarship in particular and Digital Scholarship in general. <a href="https://sameboats.org/" target="_blank">In The Same Boats</a>, a set of interactive mapping visualizations that trace the movements of significant cultural actors from the Caribbean and wider Americas, Africa, and Europe within the 20th century Afro-Atlantic world, is an example of one of these possible flagship projects.</p>
    <p>The first call for proposals will be announced in the Fall of 2022.</p>
    <div><h5>Program coordinator: Alex Gil</h5></div>
</div>
