---
layout: program
title: "The Caribbean Digital"
long_title: "The Caribbean Digital"
icon: "pe-7s-share"
thumbnail: "/assets/images/Portfolio/6.jpg"
permalink: tcd/
lang: en
---

<div class="portfolio-details">
    <p>The Caribbean Digital conference (TCD) is an international event hosted annually at locations in the United States and the Caribbean since 2014. Alternating between events convened via open invitation in response to a widely-circulated CFP and smaller events convened by invitation, respectively, TCD has created a singular and consistent space of exchange for Caribbeanist digital scholars, consisting of traditional panels, roundtable conversations, skills-building workshops, and project show-and-tells. The work done in preparation for this gathering and produced in its wake has led to the publication (in  <a href="https://archipelagosjournal.org/reviewers.html" target="_blank"><em>archipelagos journal</em></a> alone) of more than 30 peer-reviewed scholarly articles and digital projects and to the development of several ongoing digital artifacts, including a <a href="https://wayback.archive-it.org/1914/20151224034325/http://caribbeandigital.cdrs.columbia.edu/?page_id=113" target="_blank">collectively generated bibliography</a>, a <a href="https://via.hypothes.is/https://cahier1939ms.github.io/texts/translation/" target="_blank">collective translation</a>, a <a href="https://caribbeandigitalnyc.net/keywords/keywords/">keywords project</a>, and a <a href="https://caribbeandigitalnyc.net/caridischo/">repository</a> of the field of Caribbean digital studies.</p>
    <p>Historically, TCD has been financed ad-hoc through a combination of small institutional partners and small research grants, so as to remain free of charge to presenters and attendees. During the grant period, we will host two open-call conferences at the University of Puerto Rico and the University of Miami in years 1 and 3, respectively, and two invited-speaker symposia at Barnard and Dominica State College in years 2 and 4, respectively. We will cover travel and accommodation costs for 10 presenters per year at the symposia and 18 per year for the conferences. We will provide travel and honoraria to keynote speakers for the two conference years, and all four years we will offer travel grants to five graduate student attendees from under-resourced institutions who demonstrate an interest in Caribbean digital scholarship. In its role as a vehicle for the discussion and presentation of work emerging from the various summer institutes, micro-grants, and academic programs, TCD will foreground the cross-institutional ecosystems of scholars, artists, activists, and students.</p>
    <h4>TCD digital artist’s virtual residency</h4>
    <p>The CDSC will also fund an artist per year for a six-month digital artist’s residency tied to TCD events. We recognize that creative arts emerging from the Caribbean and its diasporas present a form of knowledge production that takes up the same questions and concerns as those with which academics engage, offering alternative modes of expression to audiences that extend well beyond the academy. Increasingly, artists’ residencies are conceived of as immersing an artist in ideas, values, practices, methods, and a social context to which they then respond creatively. In partnership with <a href="http://aliceyard.blogspot.com/" target="_blank">Alice Yard</a>, a celebrated contemporary art collective based since 2006 in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago, these digital residencies will include curatorial guidance and mentorship from Trinidadian artist Christopher Cozier, with the goal of producing born-digital art to be presented annually at TCD. Each residency will also include two virtual studio visits by professional critics and curators and the commissioning of a critical text for publication in <a href="https://archipelagosjournal.org/" targe="_blank"><i>archipelagos journal</i></a>. Artists-in-residence will present their digital projects at the annual TCD conference, with travel and accommodation costs provided.</p>
    <div><h5>Program coordinators: Alex Gil, Kaiama L. Glover and Kelly Baker Josephs </h5></div>
    <div class="project-demo-btn">
    <a class="btn project-btn" href="http://caribbeandigitalnyc.net/" target="_blank">Visit The Caribbean Digital</a>
</div>
