---
layout: post
title: "A summer of many firsts"
date: 2022-09-30 20:37:13 +0600
author: CDSC
permalink: cc-summer22/
post_image: "/assets/images/news/cc-symposium-06-20-22.jpg"
excerpt: "Our sub-awardee in Dominica, Create Caribbean, launched many firsts this summer!"
lang: en
---

<p>Our sub-awardee in Dominica, <a href="https://createcaribbean.org/create/" target="_blank">Create Caribbean</a> (CC), launched many firsts this summer!</p>

<p>Create Caribbean successfully started its new <a href=" http://commonsbox.createcaribbean.org/" target="_blank">Research Technology Community</a> (RTC) Internship Symposium at Dominica State College on June 24th 2022. During the symposium, students exhibited their projects in Caribbean Digital Scholarship, which they prepared throughout the Digital Humanities Research course led by prof. Schuyler Esprit, Director of CC and co-PI of the CDSC. At the event, the Create Caribbean team also launched their digital collaborative project of the year titled Visualizing Caribbean Literature!</p> 

<p>This summer also saw the beginning of CC Writer’s Retreats. With in-person and online attendance, these retreats allow participants to work on their new or existing material and develop their writing skills. Led by veterans in the literary field, participants gain insight, advice, and feedback from experts and their peers. More importantly, these events are an opportunity to create community and network with writers in and around the Caribbean.</p> 

<p>Lastly, Create Caribbean held its first Summer Intensive Training in August 2022! The program gathered members from several <a href="https://createcaribbean.org/create/community-partners/" target="_blank">local organizations </a> to teach them about Caribbean Studies and Digital Humanities topics and tools. Participants engaged with research methods and ethics, public scholarship and project management, and the workflow of developing digital projects. Participants also had the opportunity to showcase their skills by creating small digital projects. During the Fall semester, <a href="https://createcaribbean.org/create/internship/" target="_blank">CC interns</a> will work with these local partners to continue growing their skills in digital humanities and digital scholarship.</p> 

<p>The programs Create Caribbean launched during the summer were an important step in establishing long-lasting relationships that will advance the training of students and local partners in Dominica. CC will continue its work with other programs, including a hybrid writers’ retreat and the first of many virtual writing workshops.</p>

<p>Stay tuned to Create Caribbean <a href="https://twitter.com/CreateCaribbean" target="_blank">Twitter</a> for more information about their upcoming programs!</p> 
<i>In the image: Students who participated in the Research Technology Community Internship Symposium and part of the Create Caribbean team</i>
