---
layout: post
title: "Micro-grant Recipients 2024-25"
date: 2025-01-20
author: CDSC
permalink: microgrant-recipients-2025/
post_image: "assets/images/news/micrograntees2025.png"
excerpt: "Announcing the winners of this year's micro-grant program!"
lang: en
---

We are pleased to announce the recipients of the Caribbean Digital Scholarship Collective’s Micro-grant Program for 2024-25! This third and final round saw an overwhelming response of high-quality submissions from applicants across the Caribbean region and its global diasporas. The submissions showcased important themes on digital preservation, activism for marginalized communities, cultural heritage, and more. 

Once again, the micro-grant application and selection process exceeded our expectations, showing the relevance of programs supporting and mentoring Caribbean digital practitioners. We received a total of 131 submissions, and the evaluation committee awarded 12 incredible projects coming from researchers and collaborative teams working on queer communities, Afro-Caribbean and Indigenous identities and traditions, land and community sovereignty, mapping, and digital preservation. 

We would like to thank this year’s evaluation committee, professors Nadjah Rios, Mirerza Gonzalez, Tzarina Prater, and Sonja Donaldson, for their dedicated and thoughtful contributions during this process. 

We are proud to share that we have exceeded our original goal while ensuring an inclusive and comprehensive mentorship process throughout. The CDSC is pleased to have your trust in supporting many of these initiatives, and we hope to continue fostering a healthy and thriving community around Caribbean Digital scholarship in the years to come. 

The complete list of the 2024-25 grantees is available [here](https://cdscollective.org/grantees-microgrants/). 
