---
layout: subpage
short_title: Summer Institute CFP 2022
title: "Caribbean Digital Scholarship Summer Institute"
permalink: summer-school/cfp2022/
lang: en
---

### Call for Applications

The [Caribbean Digital Scholarship
Collective](https://cdscollective.org/) invites
applications for its inaugural week-long residential digital humanities
institute, to be held at the University of Miami in June 2023. The
Caribbean Digital Scholarship Summer Institute (CDSsi) is generously
supported by a Mellon Foundation grant and will be held annually for
three summers.

### Key facts

- **Dates:** 11-17 June 2023
- **Venue:** University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL
- **Application deadline:** 31 January 2023
- **Acceptance notification:** by 31 March 2023

---

### Background

To secure a viable future for digital scholarship in Caribbean Studies,
we need a more expansive pool of talent. Given this need, the CDSsi aims
to train scholars interested in approaching Caribbean Studies and
digital scholarship as organically integrated fields of inquiry and
engagement. Other DH institutes have proven to be insufficiently
accessible to our Caribbean communities for various reasons, including
high cost, logistics of international travel, and a tendency to center
Europe, Canada, and the US. The Caribbean Digital Scholarship summer
institute will attend to these problems by providing training to
scholars, at all levels, working at the intersections of Caribbean
Studies and digital humanities. In this first year of the CDSsi, the
course offerings will be:

- **Minimal Computing for Caribbean Scholars**   
With Alexander Gil, Yale University, and Andreina Soto, Barnard College

- **Critical Digital Pedagogy**   
With Halcyon M. Lawrence, Towson University

- **Building Caribbean Digital Archives**   
With Nicole N. Aljoe, Northeastern University, and Sonya Donaldson, Colby College

In order to nurture an inclusive and healthy Caribbean digital
humanities scholarly and pedagogical community, we must grapple
explicitly with the obstacles to cross-national collaboration. We have
therefore situated our summer institute at the University of Miami, a
site that facilitates travel and in-person participation from both those
situated in the Caribbean and in the North American diaspora. Funding
from the Mellon foundation allows for this model of networking and
community-building that encourages an understanding of both the
continental US and the wider Americas as generative sites of knowledge
production. Several members of the Caribbean Digital Scholarship
Collective have organized shorter variations of events based on similar
community-building models, as with [The Caribbean Digital](http://caribbeandigitalnyc.net/) (TCD) conference
series and a number of [THATCamps](https://thatcamp.org/)
(The Humanities and Technology Camps) organized in the Caribbean.

### Institute Particulars and Who Should Apply

For each year funded by the Mellon Foundation, the CDSsi will admit up
to 30 fellows across 3 courses (10 fellows per course). The summer
institute welcomes applications from all scholars and teachers working
within Caribbean studies. This includes: full- and part-time college and
university faculty, independent scholars, librarians, archivists, and
graduate students. Applicants may be working in any academic discipline
(or across disciplines) but should have some previous experience with
digital humanities and digital pedagogy. A major consideration in the
selection of fellows will be the applicant\'s plans for Caribbean
digital work in the next two years. A select number of seats in each
course will be reserved for applicants from the Caribbean region,
therefore scholars residing in the Caribbean are especially encouraged
to apply.

The tentative schedule for each course includes a three-hour morning
session and a three-hour afternoon session with a lunch break between
the two. Fellows will participate in a local field trip. At the end of
the week, fellows will present their projects or project proposals as
respective to each course. For this first year of the CDSsi, instruction
for all three courses will be conducted in person and primarily in
English.

### Travel and accommodation

The Caribbean Digital Scholarship Collective will cover travel and
accommodations for each fellow selected. The CDSsi supports travel fees
up to \$1,000 (USD) for each fellow to attend the institute in-person.
Additionally, a week of private housing and meals on the University of
Miami campus will be provided for each fellow at no additional cost.
There are no additional fees associated with attending the Caribbean
Digital Scholarship Summer Institute.

### Application Procedure

We invite applications from full- and part-time college and university
faculty, independent scholars, librarians, archivists, and graduate
students at all career stages. To apply, complete the form linked below,
indicate which courses are of interest to you in the order of your
preference, and attach a copy of your CV/resume (no more than 5 pages).
Additionally, we ask interested applicants to submit a statement of
intent (750-1,000 words) detailing why the CDSsi is of interest and how
they envision it would further their scholarship and pedagogy. Should
you have a particular project that one of our courses will be well
suited for, please describe this project in your statement of intent.

#### [Click to Open the Submission Form](https://forms.gle/vezLxU1XQPRf1oqw5)

Letters of recommendation are not required for application to the CDSsi
and will not be accepted.

### Informational tools
#### [Watch the recording](https://miami.zoom.us/rec/share/SerDvCg4mW3IKGsqrtgY7ninXnWzMnhH8NZ2nUOFjJ6sufMDHPEWKIV37WrdLD7d.D8HTMObmVUiae4Tp) of the Jan 17, 2023 information session 

Below are some questions from the session that may be helpful as you complete your application:

**What constitutes an independent scholar?**

*Example: I am not a graduate student, but graduated from an undergrad institution and work in Caribbean Studies building an archive.* 
Yes, you should apply. Once you have passed the undergraduate level, and are working in some form of Caribbean studies, we consider you an independent scholar (or, perhaps in the case of the above example, an archivist).

**If a project is collaborative, can we both apply for the summer institute? Should I indicate that the project is collaborative and if the other collaborators are applying?** 

Yes. You can both apply and should indicate that your collaborator is also applying. The statement of intent should have some individual information, but may also repeat some information about the project.

**What if I work in DH and my collaborator works in Caribbean studies?**

We are focusing our resources at this time on scholars already steeped in Caribbean Studies.

**What proportion of graduate students to working scholars are you anticipating accepting?**

We do not have set ratios in place, because we wish to be open to the resulting distribution after the applications are submitted. When selecting fellows, we will be keeping in mind not only institutional status, but also applicants from the Caribbean region, both as part of the CDS Collective’s aims.

**Should a statement of intent be targeted towards the course you are applying for?**

Yes, it should be. If you wish to indicate a close second course preference, you can also include that.

**For selecting a course in the application, can you clarify why we are ranking the courses we are interested in?**

Because this is our inaugural summer institute, we wished to be as flexible as possible with applications and acceptances. Therefore, we asked for second and third course choices to help us best determine what might be a good fit for your work if the spots available in your first course were full but we could accept you for another course. 

**Is there a required level of computational knowledge for the Minimal Computing course? What are some topics/skills that will be covered in this section?**

Advanced computational knowledge is not required for this course, but you should have some experience in thinking about the need for/existence of minimal computing in Caribbean studies.

**To whom should I address the Statement of Intent in my application?**

Your statement of intent does not need to be addressed to anyone in particular, but if it’s better for you to format it with an addressee, you can address your statement of intent to the CDSsi Director and/or the Selection Committee.

**Additional questions about the Caribbean Digital Scholarship summer institute may be sent to:**

- Kelly Baker Josephs, CDSsi Director (kbjosephs@miami.edu)
- Gabrielle Jean-Louis, CDSsi Graduate Assistant (gmj37@miami.edu)
