_summer-school/cfp2024.md, before:

---
layout: subpage
short_title: Summer Institute CFP 2024
title: "Caribbean Digital Scholarship Summer Institute"
permalink: summer-school/cfp2024/
lang: en
---

## Caribbean Digital Scholarship Summer Institute | Call for Applications

The [Caribbean Digital Scholarship Collective](https://cdscollective.org/) invites
applications for its week-long residential digital humanities institute,
to be held at the University of Miami in June 2024. The Caribbean
Digital Scholarship Summer Institute (CDSsi), generously supported by a
Mellon Foundation grant, first ran in June 2023 and will be held
annually for three summers.

### **Key facts**

- **Dates:** 9-15 June 2024

- **Venue:** University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL

- **Application deadline:** 31 January 2024

- **Acceptance notification:** by 31 March 2024

### **Background**

To secure a viable future for digital scholarship in Caribbean Studies,
we need a more expansive pool of talent. Given this need, the CDSsi aims
to train scholars interested in approaching Caribbean Studies and
digital scholarship as organically integrated fields of inquiry and
engagement. Other DH institutes have proven to be insufficiently
accessible to our Caribbean communities for various reasons, including
high cost, logistics of international travel, and a tendency to center
Europe, Canada, and the US. The Caribbean Digital Scholarship summer
institute attends to these problems by providing training to scholars,
at all levels, working at the intersections of Caribbean Studies and
digital humanities. In this second year of the CDSsi, the course
offerings will be:

- Minimal Computing for Caribbean Scholars

  - With Alexander Gil (Yale University) and Schuyler Esprit (Create
    > Caribbean Research Institute/University of the West Indies,
    > Mona)

- Critical Digital Pedagogy

  - With Tzarina T. Prater (Bentley University) and Dan C. Castilow
    > II (California Polytechnic State University)

- Building Caribbean Digital Archives

  - With Nicole N. Aljoe (Northeastern University) and Sonya
    > Donaldson (Colby College)

In order to nurture an inclusive and healthy Caribbean digital
humanities scholarly and pedagogical community, we must grapple
explicitly with the obstacles to cross-national collaboration. We have
therefore situated our summer institute at the University of Miami, a
site that facilitates travel and in-person participation from both those
situated in the Caribbean and in the North American diaspora. Funding
from the Mellon Foundation allows for this model of networking and
community-building that encourages an understanding of both the
continental US and the wider Americas as generative sites of knowledge
production. Several members of the Caribbean Digital Scholarship
Collective have organized shorter variations of events based on similar
community-building models, as with [The Caribbean
Digital](http://caribbeandigitalnyc.net/) (TCD) conference
series and a number of [THATCamps](https://thatcamp.org/)
(The Humanities and Technology Camps) organized in the Caribbean.

### **Institute Particulars and Who Should Apply**

For each year funded by the Mellon Foundation, the CDSsi will admit up
to 30 fellows across 3 courses (10 fellows per course). The summer
institute welcomes applications from all scholars and teachers working
within Caribbean studies. This includes: full- and part-time college and
university faculty, independent scholars, librarians, archivists, and
graduate students. Applicants may be working in any academic discipline
(or across disciplines) but should have some previous experience with
digital humanities and digital pedagogy. A major consideration in the
selection of fellows will be the applicant's plans for Caribbean
digital work in the next two years. A select number of seats in each
course will be reserved for applicants from the Caribbean region,
therefore scholars residing in the Caribbean are especially encouraged
to apply.

The [tentative schedule](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1D0HKMh6BkElAwR728I6tc43_F24fWdXORM8mYgVM_8s/edit?usp=sharing)
for each day of each course includes a three-hour morning session and a
three-hour afternoon session with a lunch break between the two. Fellows
will participate in a local field trip. At the end of the week, fellows
will present their projects or project proposals as respective to each
course. CDSsi is a residential institute (all participants will reside
on the UM campus for the week) and instruction for all
three courses will be conducted in person and primarily in English.

### **Travel and accommodation**

The Caribbean Digital Scholarship Collective will cover travel and
accommodations for each fellow selected. The CDSsi supports travel fees
of up to \$1,000 (USD) for each fellow to attend the institute
in-person. Additionally, a week of private housing and meals on the
University of Miami campus will be provided for each fellow at no
additional cost. There are no additional fees associated with attending
the Caribbean Digital Scholarship Summer Institute.

### **Application Procedure**

We invite applications from full- and part-time college and university
faculty, independent scholars, librarians, archivists, and graduate
students at all career stages. To apply, complete the form linked below,
indicating which courses are of interest to you in the order of your
preference. Please attach a copy of your CV/resume (no more than 5
pages) along with a statement of intent (750-1,000 words) detailing why
the CDSsi is of interest and how you envision it would further your
scholarship and pedagogy. Should you have a particular project for which
one of our courses would be well suited, please describe this project in
your statement of intent. We require that the CV and statement of intent
be submitted as one PDF.

### Apply here:

[https://forms.gle/8aBhHBfi5K5UqzFy8](https://forms.gle/8aBhHBfi5K5UqzFy8)

Letters of recommendation are not required for application to the CDSsi
and will not be accepted.

### **Information session**

For more information about the Caribbean Digital Scholarship Summer
Institute, attend our virtual open house session. We will hold an
hour-long informational session on Wednesday, 17 January 2024, at 12 pm
EST via Zoom. [Click Here to Register](https://miami.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJIqf-itrzkvEtyD-_nkyYzXHf_pTYSrhXUt).

Questions about the Caribbean Digital Scholarship summer institute may
be sent to:

Kelly Baker Josephs, CDSsi Director (kbjosephs@miami.edu)

Gabrielle Jean-Louis, CDSsi Graduate Assistant (gmj37@miami.edu)

Commit message:

Fixed form and Zoom links - Alex please check them out

_summer-school/cfp2024.md, after:

---
layout: subpage
short_title: Summer Institute CFP 2024
title: "Caribbean Digital Scholarship Summer Institute"
permalink: summer-school/cfp2024/
lang: en
---

## Caribbean Digital Scholarship Summer Institute | Call for Applications

The [Caribbean Digital Scholarship Collective](https://cdscollective.org/) invites
applications for its week-long residential digital humanities institute,
to be held at the University of Miami in June 2024. The Caribbean
Digital Scholarship Summer Institute (CDSsi), generously supported by a
Mellon Foundation grant, first ran in June 2023 and will be held
annually for three summers.

### **Key facts**

- **Dates:** 9-15 June 2024

- **Venue:** University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL

- **Application deadline:** 31 January 2024

- **Acceptance notification:** by 31 March 2024

### **Background**

To secure a viable future for digital scholarship in Caribbean Studies,
we need a more expansive pool of talent. Given this need, the CDSsi aims
to train scholars interested in approaching Caribbean Studies and
digital scholarship as organically integrated fields of inquiry and
engagement. Other DH institutes have proven to be insufficiently
accessible to our Caribbean communities for various reasons, including
high cost, logistics of international travel, and a tendency to center
Europe, Canada, and the US. The Caribbean Digital Scholarship summer
institute attends to these problems by providing training to scholars,
at all levels, working at the intersections of Caribbean Studies and
digital humanities. In this second year of the CDSsi, the course
offerings will be:

- Minimal Computing for Caribbean Scholars

  - With Alexander Gil (Yale University) and Schuyler Esprit (Create
    > Caribbean Research Institute/University of the West Indies,
    > Mona)

- Critical Digital Pedagogy

  - With Tzarina T. Prater (Bentley University) and Dan C. Castilow
    > II (California Polytechnic State University)

- Building Caribbean Digital Archives

  - With Nicole N. Aljoe (Northeastern University) and Sonya
    > Donaldson (Colby College)

In order to nurture an inclusive and healthy Caribbean digital
humanities scholarly and pedagogical community, we must grapple
explicitly with the obstacles to cross-national collaboration. We have
therefore situated our summer institute at the University of Miami, a
site that facilitates travel and in-person participation from both those
situated in the Caribbean and in the North American diaspora. Funding
from the Mellon Foundation allows for this model of networking and
community-building that encourages an understanding of both the
continental US and the wider Americas as generative sites of knowledge
production. Several members of the Caribbean Digital Scholarship
Collective have organized shorter variations of events based on similar
community-building models, as with [The Caribbean
Digital](http://caribbeandigitalnyc.net/) (TCD) conference
series and a number of [THATCamps](https://thatcamp.org/)
(The Humanities and Technology Camps) organized in the Caribbean.

### **Institute Particulars and Who Should Apply**

For each year funded by the Mellon Foundation, the CDSsi will admit up
to 30 fellows across 3 courses (10 fellows per course). The summer
institute welcomes applications from all scholars and teachers working
within Caribbean studies. This includes: full- and part-time college and
university faculty, independent scholars, librarians, archivists, and
graduate students. Applicants may be working in any academic discipline
(or across disciplines) but should have some previous experience with
digital humanities and digital pedagogy. A major consideration in the
selection of fellows will be the applicant's plans for Caribbean
digital work in the next two years. A select number of seats in each
course will be reserved for applicants from the Caribbean region,
therefore scholars residing in the Caribbean are especially encouraged
to apply.

The [tentative schedule](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1D0HKMh6BkElAwR728I6tc43_F24fWdXORM8mYgVM_8s/edit?usp=sharing)
for each day of each course includes a three-hour morning session and a
three-hour afternoon session with a lunch break between the two. Fellows
will participate in a local field trip. At the end of the week, fellows
will present their projects or project proposals as respective to each
course. CDSsi is a residential institute (all participants will reside
on the UM campus for the week) and instruction for all
three courses will be conducted in person and primarily in English.

### **Travel and accommodation**

The Caribbean Digital Scholarship Collective will cover travel and
accommodations for each fellow selected. The CDSsi supports travel fees
of up to \$1,000 (USD) for each fellow to attend the institute
in-person. Additionally, a week of private housing and meals on the
University of Miami campus will be provided for each fellow at no
additional cost. There are no additional fees associated with attending
the Caribbean Digital Scholarship Summer Institute.

### **Application Procedure**

We invite applications from full- and part-time college and university
faculty, independent scholars, librarians, archivists, and graduate
students at all career stages. To apply, complete the form linked below,
indicating which courses are of interest to you in the order of your
preference. Please attach a copy of your CV/resume (no more than 5
pages) along with a statement of intent (750-1,000 words) detailing why
the CDSsi is of interest and how you envision it would further your
scholarship and pedagogy. Should you have a particular project for which
one of our courses would be well suited, please describe this project in
your statement of intent. We require that the CV and statement of intent
be submitted as one PDF.

<b>Apply using the [Submission form](https://forms.gle/8aBhHBfi5K5UqzFy8)</b>

Letters of recommendation are not required for application to the CDSsi
and will not be accepted.

### **Information session**

For more information about the Caribbean Digital Scholarship Summer
Institute, attend our virtual open house session. We will hold an
hour-long informational session on Wednesday, 17 January 2024, at 12 pm
EST via Zoom. [Register for the informational session](https://miami.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJIqf-itrzkvEtyD-_nkyYzXHf_pTYSrhXUt)

Questions about the Caribbean Digital Scholarship summer institute may
be sent to:

Kelly Baker Josephs, CDSsi Director (kbjosephs@miami.edu)

Gabrielle Jean-Louis, CDSsi Graduate Assistant (gmj37@miami.edu)
